# Wordle-Solver
Optimal wordle game guesses
This program is used to calculate the optimal guesses for the popular browser game Wordle, found at Wordle.com, in addition to several spin-off games of Wordle. So far, the spin-off's implemented are Dordle, Quordle, Nerdle, and games found at hellowordle.net where one can play Wordle like games with secret words with lengths anywhere from 4 to 11 letters.

Wordle is a popular web game where the player has 6 tries to guess the daily "secret" five letter word. With each try, the player is told some information to help narrow down the choices. Once entered as a guess, the letters in the word the player guessed will change colors. A green letter indicates that that letter is in the "secret" word and is currently in the correct position (i.e. the first, second, etc. position). A yellow letter indicates that that letter is in the "secret" word but is currently in the wrong position. A gray letter indicates that that letter is not in the word at all. 

(Note: there are some edge cases with the gray letter rule, especially pertaining to double letters in the same word. For example, if the secret word is "ample" and one guesses "puppy", the sequence of letters in puppy will be gray, gray, green, gray, gray. The first and third p's are gray even though 'p' is in the word. That is because the second 'p' is green and so the gray first and third 'p' indicate that there is not a second 'p' in the secret word. Additionally, if the secret word was "space" and one guessed "puppy", only the first 'p' would be yellow, and the other two would be gray, indicating the presence of only one 'p' in the secret word. If more than one 'p' turned yellow, that would indicated two p's in the secret word, but that neither was in the correct position.)

Using the list of over 13,000 words accepted by Wordle as a valid guess, this program calculates which guess (on average) will narrow down your possible words the most. Simply run the program to open a GUI with a button labeled "Begin" which you can press when you start playing. This brings up a different window where you can enter the details of the game variation you are playing. In the first entry box, you can enter wordle, dordle, quordle, or nerdle along with the length of the words/equations in the second box. Then pressing start game will bring up a different window where you can play the game. Here, in the your guess box, you type in the word you guessed and in the "Order of colors" box, you can enter the colors of the tiles associated with that guess. For example, the best possible first guess has previously been calculated to be "salet" (which will appear as a suggested guess, as the best first guess for each word length has been previously calculted myself). You do not need to start with "salet", however; you can choose whichever word you would like. Enter your starting word into Wordle.com (or its spin-off website) and see what colors the tiles are now. Then to calculate your next guess, you would enter this information into the GUI. In the entry box next to "Your guess:" you would enter the word you guessed (so personally for me, first it would be "salet") then in the entry box beneath the label "Order of colors", you would record the colors of the boxes returned to you by Wordle.com in the format of a five letter string of g's, y's and b's representing green, yellow, and gray tiles (i use 'b' for gray which stands for black because green and gray both start with the letter g). So if i were to type salet into wordle and press enter, and the 's' and 'l' turned green and the 'e' turned yellow, i would type "salet" into the left entry window and gbgyb into the right entry box. If you are playing Dordle or Quordle, you can separate these responses by pressing enter and putting each sequence of colors in a new line. Then, click enter and window will appear labeled "Next guess(es)" where a list of your top 5 guesses from best to worst will be shown. Then simply type a word of your choosing into wordle (it doesnt even have to be any of these words), enter it into wordle to get your colors for that word, and repeat the process. You can continue this process until you find the correct word as indicated by Wordle.com. When you are ready to play again, either close and reopen the program, or just pressthe button labeled "New game". 

(A second note: this only works 100% effectively for the online game wordle as i was able to accesss the list of accepted words for the official Wordle.com page. Some words accepted by Wordle.com may not be accepted by other websites such as wordleunlimited.com. However, i hope to implement a feature that initially asks one for the name of a text file containing a list of possible words to play with to broaden the functionality of the program.)

As previously mentioned, this also works for certain spinoffs of Wordle. For Dordle and Quordle, games where you play two and four games respectively of Wordle simultaneously, this program calculates the word that narrows down the overall number of remaining possible words for all active games the most. For Nerdle, it works exactly the same as a game of Wordle with word length 8 but with equations instead of words.
